Update LangChain Autologging docs (#12306)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/llms/langchain/autologging.rst

MLflow Langchain Autologging
============================

> MLflow LangChain flavor supports autologging, a powerful feature that allows you to log crucial details about the LangChain model and execution without the need for explicit logging statements. MLflow LangChain autologging covers various aspects of the model, including traces, models, signature, and and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow LangChain flavor supports autologging, a powerful feature that allows you to log crucial details about the LangChain model and execution without the need for explicit logging statements. MLflow LangChain autologging covers various aspects of the model, including traces, models, signatures and more.
```

.. attention::

>     MLflow LangChain Autologging feature is largely renewed in ``MLflow 2.14.0``. If you are using the earlier version of MLflow, please refer to legacy documentation `here <#documentation-for-old-versions>`_ for the old version of the feature.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    MLflow's LangChain Autologging feature has been overhauled in the ``MLflow 2.14.0`` release. If you are using the earlier version of MLflow, please refer to the legacy documentation `here <#documentation-for-old-versions>`_ for applicable autologging documentation.
```

.. contents:: Table of Contents
  :local:
  :depth: 1

Quickstart
----------

> To enable autologging for LangChain models, call :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog()` at the beginning of your script or notebook. This will automatically log the traces by default, and other artifacts such as models, datasets, and model signatures if you enable them. For more information about the configuration, please refer to the `Configure Autologging <#configure-autologging>`_ section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable autologging for LangChain models, call :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog()` at the beginning of your script or notebook. This will automatically log the traces by default as well as other artifacts such as models, datasets, and model signatures if you explicitly enable them. For more information about the configuration, please refer to the `Configure Autologging <#configure-autologging>`_ section.
```

> .. note::

Reviewer: Is there a minimum version for trace integration support, or is this it?

Author: Great callout! Actually, now that we don't rely on the legacy callback in LangChain repo and other autolog artifacts are just subset of model logging, autolog does not have particular version requirement more than general LangChain-MLflow integration. Discussed with Serena offline and we just remove this extra warning.

    To use MLflow LangChain autologging, please upgrade langchain to **version 0.1.0** or higher. To install the recommended version of LangChain and its dependencies, run ``pip install mlflow[langchain] -U`` in your environment.

.. code-block::

    import mlflow

    mlflow.langchain.autolog()

    # Enable other optional logging
    # mlflow.langchain.autolog(log_models=True, log_datasets=True)

    # Your LangChain model code here
    ...

> Once you invoked the chain, you can view the logged traces and artifacts in the MLflow UI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have invoked the chain, you can view the logged traces and artifacts in the MLflow UI.
```

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/llms/tracing/langchain-tracing.gif
    :alt: LangChain Tracing via autolog
    :width: 100%
    :align: center

Configure Autologging
---------------------

> MLflow LangChain autologging can log various information about the model and its inference. **By default, only trace logging are enabled**, but you can enable autologging of other information by setting the corresponding parameters when calling :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog()`. For other configurations, please refer to the API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow LangChain autologging can log various information about the model and its inference. **By default, only trace logging is enabled**, but you can enable autologging of other information by setting the corresponding parameters when calling :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog()`. For other configurations, please refer to the API documentation.
```

    * - Model Signatures
      - ``false``
      - ``log_model_signatures``
      - If set to ``True``, :py:class:`ModelSignatures <mlflow.models.ModelSignature>` describing model inputs and outputs are collected and logged along with Langchain model artifacts during inference.
    * - Input Example
      - ``false``
      - ``log_input_examples``
      - If set to ``True``, input examples from inference data are collected and logged along with LangChain model artifacts during inference.
    * - Inputs and Outputs (**Deprecated**)
      - ``false``
      - ``log_inputs_outputs``
      - If set to ``True``, the inputs and outputs will be logged when the model is invoked. This feature is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Please use ``log_traces`` instead.

For example, to disable logging of traces, and instead enable model logging, run the following code:

.. code-block::

    import mlflow

    mlflow.langchain.autolog(
        log_traces=False,
        log_models=True,
    )

.. note::

>     When you enable any optional logging other than tracing, MLflow creates an MLflow Run in the active experiment and logs artifacts there. Each inference call logs those artifacts into a separate directory named `artifacts-<session_id>-<idx>`, where `session_id` is randomly generated uuid, and `idx` is the index of the inference call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you enable any optional logging other than tracing, MLflow creates an MLflow Run in the active experiment and logs artifacts there. Each inference call logs those artifacts into a separate directory named `artifacts-<session_id>-<idx>`, where `session_id` is a randomly generated uuid, and `idx` is the index of the inference call.
```

.. note::

>     MLflow does not support automatic model logging for a chain contains retrievers. Saving retrievers requires additional ``loader_fn`` and ``persist_dir`` information for loading the model. If you want to log the model with retrievers, please log the model manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    MLflow does not support automatic model logging for chains that contain retrievers. Saving retrievers requires additional ``loader_fn`` and ``persist_dir`` information for loading the model. If you want to log the model with retrievers, please log the model manually.
```

Example Code of LangChain Autologging
-------------------------------------

.. literalinclude:: ../../../../examples/langchain/chain_autolog.py
    :language: python

How It Works
------------

> MLflow LangChain Autologging uses two ways to log traces and other artifacts. The tracing is archived via `Callbacks <https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/modules/callbacks/>`_ framework of LangChain. Other artifacts are recorded by patching `the invocation functions` of the supported models. In typical scenarios, you don't need to care about the internal implementation details, but this section provides a brief overview of how it works under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow LangChain Autologging uses two ways to log traces and other artifacts. The tracing is achieved via the `Callbacks <https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/modules/callbacks/>`_ framework of LangChain. Other artifacts are recorded by patching `the invocation functions` of the supported models. In typical scenarios, you don't need to care about the internal implementation details, but this section provides a brief overview of how it works under the hood.
```

> MLflow LangChain Autologging uses two ways to log traces and other artifacts. The tracing is archived via `Callbacks <https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/modules/callbacks/>`_ framework of LangChain. Other artifacts are recorded by patching `the invocation functions` of the supported models. In typical scenarios, you don't need to care about the internal implementation details, but this section provides a brief overview of how it works under the hood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
MLflow LangChain Autologging uses two ways to log traces and other artifacts. Tracing is made possible via the `Callbacks <https://python.langchain.com/v0.1/docs/modules/callbacks/>`_ framework of LangChain. Other artifacts are recorded by patching `the invocation functions` of the supported models. In typical scenarios, you don't need to care about the internal implementation details, but this section provides a brief overview of how it works under the hood.
```

MLflow Tracing Callbacks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> `MlflowLangchainTracer <https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/mlflow/langchain/langchain_tracer.py>`_ is a callback handler that is injected into the langchain model inference process to log traces automatically. It starts a new span upon a set of actions of the chain such as ``on_chain_start``, ``on_llm_start``, and conclude it when the action is finished. Various metadata such as span type, action name, input, output, latency, are automatically recorded to the span.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MlflowLangchainTracer <https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/blob/master/mlflow/langchain/langchain_tracer.py>`_ is a callback handler that is injected into the langchain model inference process to log traces automatically. It starts a new span upon a set of actions of the chain such as ``on_chain_start``, ``on_llm_start``, and concludes it when the action is finished. Various metadata such as span type, action name, input, output, latency, are automatically recorded to the span.
```

    If autologging doesn't log artifacts as expected, please check the warning messages in `stdout` logs. 
    For langchain_community==0.0.16, you will need to install the `textstat` and `spacy` libraries manually, as well as restarting any active interactive environment (i.e., a notebook environment). On Databricks, you can achieve this via executing `dbutils.library.restartPython()` to force the Python REPL to restart, allowing the newly installed libraries to be available.

MLflow langchain autologging injects `MlflowCallbackHandler <https://github.com/langchain-ai/langchain/blob/master/libs/community/langchain_community/callbacks/mlflow_callback.py>`_ into the langchain model inference process to log
metrics and artifacts automatically. We will only log the model if both `log_models` is set to `True` when calling :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog` and the objects being invoked are within the supported model types: `Chain`, `AgentExecutor`, `BaseRetriever`, `RunnableSequence`, `RunnableParallel`, `RunnableBranch`, `SimpleChatModel`, `ChatPromptTemplate`,
`RunnableLambda`, `RunnablePassthrough`. Additional model types will be supported in the future.

.. note::

>     We patch `invoke` function for all supported langchain models, `__call__` function for Chains, AgentExecutors models, and `get_relevant_documents` function for BaseRetrievers, so only when those functions are called MLflow autologs metrics and artifacts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    We patch the `invoke` function for all supported langchain models, the `__call__` function for Chains and AgentExecutors models, and `get_relevant_documents` function for BaseRetrievers so that only when those functions are called will MLflow automatically log metrics and artifacts.
```

    # Enable other optional logging
    # mlflow.langchain.autolog(log_models=True, log_datasets=True)

    # Your LangChain model code here
    ...

Once you have invoked the chain, you can view the logged traces and artifacts in the MLflow UI.

.. figure:: ../../_static/images/llms/tracing/langchain-tracing.gif
    :alt: LangChain Tracing via autolog
    :width: 100%
    :align: center

Configure Autologging
---------------------

MLflow LangChain autologging can log various information about the model and its inference. **By default, only trace logging is enabled**, but you can enable autologging of other information by setting the corresponding parameters when calling :py:func:`mlflow.langchain.autolog()`. For other configurations, please refer to the API documentation.

.. list-table::
    :widths: 20 20 30 30
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Target
      - Default
      - Parameter
      - Description
    * - Traces
      - ``true``
      - ``log_traces``
      - Whether to generate and log traces for the model. See `MLflow Tracing <../tracing/index.html>`_ for more details about tracing feature.
    * - Model Artifacts
      - ``false``
      - ``log_models``

>       - If set to ``True``, the LangChain model will be logged when it is invoked. Supported models are `Chain`, `AgentExecutor`, `BaseRetriever`, `RunnableSequence`, `RunnableParallel`, `RunnableBranch`, `SimpleChatModel`, and `ChatPromptTemplate` (Additional model types will be supported in the future.)

Reviewer 2: This supported models might not be accurate, can we link to supported_lc_types?

Author: Good point! I'm a bit hesitant to direct all ppl to source code, so lemme add a note like "The list may not be up-to-date, please refer to source code for ....")🙂. I believe we add things to the list but rarely remove, so it's still convenient to see some common classes without needing to jump into code.

    * - Model Signatures
      - ``false``
      - ``log_model_signatures``

>       - If set to ``True``, :py:class:`ModelSignatures <mlflow.models.ModelSignature>` describing model inputs and outputs are collected and logged along with Langchain model artifacts during inference.

Reviewer 2: Note: Model signatures are MLflow model attributes and are only collected if ``log_models`` is also ``True``.

Author: Ah great catch, will add a description for it!

    * - Input Example
      - ``false``
      - ``log_input_examples``

>       - If set to ``True``, input examples from inference data are collected and logged along with LangChain model artifacts during inference.

Reviewer 2: Note: Input examples are MLflow model attributes and are only collected if ``log_models`` is also ``True``.

    * - Inputs and Outputs (**Deprecated**)
      - ``false``
      - ``log_inputs_outputs``
      - If set to ``True``, the inputs and outputs will be logged when the model is invoked. This feature is deprecated and will be removed in the future. Please use ``log_traces`` instead.

For example, to disable logging of traces, and instead enable model logging, run the following code:

.. code-block::

    import mlflow

    mlflow.langchain.autolog(
        log_traces=False,
        log_models=True,
    )

.. note::

>     When you enable any optional logging other than tracing, MLflow creates an MLflow Run in the active experiment and logs artifacts there. Each inference call logs those artifacts into a separate directory named `artifacts-<session_id>-<idx>`, where `session_id` is a randomly generated uuid, and `idx` is the index of the inference call.

Reviewer 2: This seems apply to old callback. Can we remove this part here since log_inputs_outputs is also deprecated?

                span_name=name or self._assign_span_name(serialized, "chat model"),
                parent_run_id=parent_run_id,
                span_type=SpanType.CHAT_MODEL,
                run_id=run_id,
                inputs=messages,
                attributes=kwargs,
            )

Patch Functions for Logging Artifacts
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Other artifacts such as models, datasets, are logged by patching the invocation functions of the supported models to insert the logging call. MLflow patches the following functions:

* ``invoke``
* ``batch``
* ``stream``
* ``get_relevant_documents`` (for retrievers)
* ``__call__`` (for Chains and AgentExecutors)
* ``ainvoke``
* ``abatch``
* ``astream``

.. warning::

    MLflow supports autologging for async functions (e.g., ``ainvoke``, ``abatch``, ``astream``), however, the logging operation is not
    asynchronous and may block the main thread. The invocation function itself is still not blocking and returns a coroutine object, but
    the logging overhead may slow down the model inference process. Please be aware of this side effect when using async functions with autologging.

Troubleshooting
---------------

> If you encounter any issues with LangChain autologging, please refer to `FAQ <../index.html#faq>` first. If you still have questions, please feel free to open an issue in `MLflow Github repo <https://github.com/mlflow/mlflow/issues>`_.

Reviewer 2: Do you think it's useful to add a FAQ about how to disable warning? Some people might don't want to see the warnings at all when they use autolog 🤔

Author: Great idea!
